docs: update quickstart with container information (#39)
coreruleset/documentation: content/deployment/install.md

## Prerequisites

Installing the CRS isn't very hard but it does have one major requirement: a compatible engine. The base reference engine shown here is ModSecurity.

{{% notice warning %}}
In order to run the CRS `3.x` using ModSecurity we recommend you to use the latest version available. For Nginx please use the `3.x` branch of ModSecurity, and for Apache use the latest `2.x` branch.
{{% /notice %}}

## How to install a compatible engine

Here we will cover two different ways of getting your engine up and running: you can use your favorite engine provided by your OS distribution, or it can be compiled from source. Here we will cover ModSecurity installs, but you can see the Coraza install documents [here](https://www.coraza.io).

### Installing ModSecurity

Pre-packaged modsecurity can be get from major Linux distributions.

> - Debian: our friends at [DigitalWave](https://modsecurity.digitalwave.hu) package and most importantly **keep ModSecurity updated** for debian and derivatives, so check their repo!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Debian: our friends at [DigitalWave](https://modsecurity.digitalwave.hu) package and most importantly **keep ModSecurity updated** for Debian and derivatives, so check their repo!
```

- Fedora:
  - `dnf install mod_security` for Apache + ModSecurity2
- RHEL compatible: you will need to install EPEL and then `yum install mod_security`.

For Windows, get the latest MSI package from https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/releases.

{{% notice tip %}}
**Distributions might not update their releases frequently** 

As a result it is quite likely that your distribution may be missing required features or possibly even have security vulnerabilities. Additionally, depending on your package/package manager your ModSecurity configuration will be laid out slightly different.
{{% /notice %}}

As the different engines and distributions have differeent layouts for their configuration, and to simplify our documentation, we will use the prefix `<web server config>/` from now on.

Examples of this `<web server config>/` are:
- `/etc/apache2` in Debian and derivatives
- `/etc/httpd` in RHEL and derivatives
- `/usr/local/apache2` if you compiled apache from source with the default prefix
- `C:\Program Files\ModSecurity IIS\` (or Program Files(x86) depending on your configuration) on Windows
- `/etc/nginx`

### Compiling ModSecurity

> Compiling ModSecurity is easy, but slightly outside the scope of this document. If you are interested in learning how to compile ModSecurity please go to the [ModSecurity documentation](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki). Having compiled ModSecurity there is a simple test to see if your installation is working. If you have compiled from source you would need to include the directive to **load your module** in your Web Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compiling ModSecurity is easy, but slightly outside the scope of this document. If you are interested in learning how to compile ModSecurity please go to the [ModSecurity documentation](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki). Having compiled ModSecurity, there is a simple test to see if your installation works. If you have compiled from source you would need to include the directive to **load your module** in your Web Server.
```

Examples:

> - apache: `LoadModule security2_module modules/mod_security2.so`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Apache: `LoadModule security2_module modules/mod_security2.so`
```

> - nginx: `load_module modules/ngx_http_modsecurity_module.so;`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Nginx: `load_module modules/ngx_http_modsecurity_module.so;`
```

[Thu Apr 21 23:55:35.142988 2022] [:notice] [pid 2528:tid 140410548673600] ModSecurity: LUA compiled version="Lua 5.1"
[Thu Apr 21 23:55:35.142991 2022] [:notice] [pid 2528:tid 140410548673600] ModSecurity: YAJL compiled version="2.1.0"
[Thu Apr 21 23:55:35.142994 2022] [:notice] [pid 2528:tid 140410548673600] ModSecurity: LIBXML compiled version="2.9.4"
[Thu Apr 21 23:55:35.142997 2022] [:notice] [pid 2528:tid 140410548673600] ModSecurity: Status engine is currently disabled, enable it by set SecStatusEngine to On.
[Thu Apr 21 23:55:35.187082 2022] [mpm_event:notice] [pid 2530:tid 140410548673600] AH00489: Apache/2.4.41 (Ubuntu) configured -- resuming normal operations
[Thu Apr 21 23:55:35.187125 2022] [core:notice] [pid 2530:tid 140410548673600] AH00094: Command line: '/usr/sbin/apache2'
```

{{% notice warning "Nginx with ModSecurity 2.x" "skull-crossbones" %}}

This is **not** supported. It doesn't work as expected. Our recommendation is to avoid this setup.
{{% /notice %}}

### Nginx with ModSecurity 3.x (libmodsecurity) Compiled

> You can found the compilation recipe in the [ModSecurity wiki](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki/Compilation-recipes-for-v3.x). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the compilation recipe in the [ModSecurity wiki](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki/Compilation-recipes-for-v3.x). 
```

### Microsoft IIS with ModSecurity 2.x

> The inital configuration file, is `modsecurity_iis.conf`. This file will be parsed by the ModSecurity for both ModSecurity and `'Include'` directives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The inital configuration file is `modsecurity_iis.conf`. This file will be parsed by ModSecurity for both ModSecurity and `'Include'` directives.
```

### Setting up OWASP CRS

> OWASP CRS contains one setup file that should be reviewed prior to completing setup. The setup file is the only configuration file within the root 'coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}' folder and is named `csr-setup.conf.example`. Going through this configuration file and reading what the different options are is HIGHLY recommended. At minimum you should keep in mind the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OWASP CRS contains one setup file that should be reviewed prior to completing setup. The setup file is the only configuration file within the root 'coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}' folder and is named `csr-setup.conf.example`. Going through this configuration file and reading what the different options are is **HIGHLY** recommended. As a minimum, you should keep in mind the following:
```

> - CRS does not configure features such as the rule engine, the audit engine, logging etc. This task is part of your initial setup. For ModSecurity, if you haven't done this yet please check out the [recommended configuration](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/blob/master/modsecurity.conf-recommended)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- CRS does not configure features such as the rule engine, the audit engine, logging etc. These tasks are part of your initial setup. For ModSecurity, if you haven't done this yet, please check out the [recommended configuration](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/blob/master/modsecurity.conf-recommended)
```

> - By default [SecDefaultAction](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki/Reference-Manual-%28v2.x%29#SecDefaultAction) CRS will redirect to your local domain when an alert is triggered. This may cause redirect loops depending on your configuration. Take some time to decide what you want ModSecurity it do (drop the packet, return a status:403, go to a custom page etc.) when it detects malicious activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, CRS will redirect to your local domain when an alert is triggered (see [SecDefaultAction](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki/Reference-Manual-%28v2.x%29#SecDefaultAction)). This may cause redirect loops depending on your configuration. Take some time to decide what you want ModSecurity to do (drop the packet, return a HTTP status code of 403, go to a custom page etc.) when it detects malicious activity.
```

> - Make sure to configure your anomaly scoring thresholds for more information see [Anomaly]({{< ref "anomaly_scoring.md" >}} "Anomaly")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure to configure your anomaly scoring thresholds. For detailed information see [Anomaly]({{< ref "anomaly_scoring.md" >}} "Anomaly")
```

> - By default our rules will consider many issues with different databases and languages. If you are running in a specific environment, you probably want to limit this behavior for performance reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, our rules will consider many issues with different databases and languages. If you are running in a specific environment, you probably want to limit this behavior for performance reasons or to avoid false positives.
```

> - ModSecurity supports [Project Honeypot](https://www.projecthoneypot.org/) blacklists. This is a great project and all you need to do to leverage it is sign up for an [API key](https://www.projecthoneypot.org/httpbl_api.php) (⚠️ it might be outdated)

Reviewer: Do you mean by "outdated" that you aren't sure whether Project Honeypot is still running?

Author: Yes, did made a check on nothing related to that project.

Reviewer: It seems to be operational still but there has been no development for a couple of years now. There are also some known issues (e.g. PHP dropped support for one of the functions they use, no IPv6 support, etc.). We should maybe reassess whether we want to advertise the project, like we do now.

Author: Agreed 100%. Let's create a ticket and track it in the main repo? After deciding we circle back.

- Do make sure you have added any methods, static resources, content types, or file extensions that your site needs beyond the basic ones listed.

For more information please see the page on [configuration]({{< ref "crs.md" >}} "configuration"). Once you have reviewed

> and configured CRS you should rename the file suffix from `.example` to `.conf`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and configured CRS, you need to remove the `.example`:
```

```bash
mv csr-setup.conf.example csr-setup.conf
```

> In addition to `csr-setup.conf.example` there are two other .example files within our repository. These files are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to `csr-setup.conf.example` there are two other `.example` files within our repository. These files are:
```

> `rules/REQUEST-900-EXCLUSION-RULES-BEFORE-CRS.conf.example` and `rules/RESPONSE-999-EXCLUSION-RULES-AFTER-CRS.conf.example`. These files are designed to provide the rule maintainer the capability to modify rules (see [false positives and tuning]({{< ref "../configuring/false_positives_tuning.md" >}}#rule-exclusions)) without breaking forward compatibility with updates. As such you should rename these two files, removing the `.example` suffix. This will make it so that even when updates are installed they do not overwrite your custom updates. To rename the files in Linux one would use a command similar to the

Reviewer: If this is so central, why don't we just ship the files without the `example` extension? Can you explain that?

Author: Well, we need to ask why this was designed this way. Probably so it doesn't override the file of already present.

Reviewer: @dune73?

following:

```bash
mv rules/REQUEST-900-EXCLUSION-RULES-BEFORE-CRS.conf.example rules/REQUEST-900-EXCLUSION-RULES-BEFORE-CRS.conf
mv rules/RESPONSE-999-EXCLUSION-RULES-AFTER-CRS.conf.example rules/RESPONSE-999-EXCLUSION-RULES-AFTER-CRS.conf
```

## Proceeding with the Installation

> The engine should support the `Include` directive out of the box. The directive tells the engine to parse additional files for directives. But where do you place this folder for it to be included? If you were to look at the CRS files, you'd note there are quite a few .conf files. While the names attempt to do a good job at describing what each file does additional information is available in the [rules](rules.md) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engine should support the `Include` directive out of the box. The directive tells the engine to parse additional files for directives. But where do you place this folder for it to be included? If you were to look at the CRS files, you'd note there are quite a few `.conf` files. While the names attempt to do a good job at describing what each file `does,` additional information is available in the [rules]({{< ref "rules.md" >}}) section.
```

### Includes for Apache

> We recommend you creating a folder specifically for the rules. In our example we have named this `modsecurity.d` and placed in within the root `<web server config>/` directory. When using Apache we can use the wildcard notation to vastly simplify our rules. Simply copying our cloned directory to our `modsecurity.d` folder and specifying the appropiate include directives will allow us to install OWASP CRS. In the example below we have also included our `modsecurity.conf` file which includes reccomended configurations for ModSecurity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend you create a directory specifically for the rules. In our example we have named it `modsecurity.d` and placed it in the root `<web server config>/` directory. When using Apache, we can use the wildcard notation to vastly simplify our rules. Simply copying our cloned directory to our `modsecurity.d` folder and specifying the appropriate include directives will allow us to install OWASP CRS. In the example below we have also included our `modsecurity.conf` file which includes recomended configurations for ModSecurity:
```

```apache
<IfModule security2_module>
        Include modsecurity.d/modsecurity.conf

>         Include modsecurity.d/coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/csr-setup.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Include modsecurity.d/coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/csr-setup.conf
        
        Include modsecurity.d/coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/plugins/*-config.conf
        Include modsecurity.d/coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/plugins/*-before.conf           
```

>         Include modsecurity.d/coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/*.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Include modsecurity.d/coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/*.conf
        
        Include modsecurity.d/coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/plugins/*-after.conf
```

</IfModule>
```

### Includes for Nginx

> Nginx will include from the Nginx conf directory (`/etc/nginx` or `/usr/local/nginx/conf/` depending on the environment). Because only one `ModSecurityConfig` directive can be specified within nginx.conf we recommend naming that file `modsec_includes.conf` and including additional files from there. In the example below we copied our cloned `owasp-modsecurity-crs` folder into our Nginx configuration directory. From there we specify the appropiate include directives which will include OWASP CRS when the server is restarted. In the example below we have also included our `modsecurity.conf` file which includes reccomended configurations for ModSecurity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nginx will include from the Nginx conf directory (`/etc/nginx` or `/usr/local/nginx/conf/` depending on the environment). Because only one `ModSecurityConfig` directive can be specified within `nginx.conf` we recommend naming that file `modsec_includes.conf` and including additional files from there. In the example below, we copied our cloned `owasp-modsecurity-crs` directory into our Nginx configuration directory. From there, we specify the appropriate include directives which will include OWASP CRS when the server is restarted. In the example below, we have also included our `modsecurity.conf` file which includes recomended configurations for ModSecurity:
```

```nginx
include modsecurity.conf

> include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/crs-setup.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/crs-setup.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/plugins/*-config.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/plugins/*-before.conf
```

Reviewer: For v4. I assumed this was for v4.

Author: Let me think how to add pages for each version. For now let's use this for 3.3.2

include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/REQUEST-941-APPLICATION-ATTACK-XSS.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/REQUEST-942-APPLICATION-ATTACK-SQLI.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/REQUEST-943-APPLICATION-ATTACK-SESSION-FIXATION.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/REQUEST-944-APPLICATION-ATTACK-JAVA.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/REQUEST-949-BLOCKING-EVALUATION.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-950-DATA-LEAKAGES.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-951-DATA-LEAKAGES-SQL.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-952-DATA-LEAKAGES-JAVA.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-953-DATA-LEAKAGES-PHP.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-954-DATA-LEAKAGES-IIS.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-959-BLOCKING-EVALUATION.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-980-CORRELATION.conf

> include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-999-EXCLUSION-RULES-AFTER-CRS.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/rules/RESPONSE-999-EXCLUSION-RULES-AFTER-CRS.conf
include coreruleset-{{< param crs_latest_release >}}/plugins/*-after.conf
```

Author: I wouldn't add this now, for 3.3.2, right?

Reviewer: Oh. No, of course not. I thought this was for v4.
